Add osu!lazer tournament client article (#4061)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/osu!tourney/osu!lazer_tournament_client/en.md

# osu!lazer tournament client

> **osu!lazer tournament client** is the official client that overlays osu!tourney.

Reviewer: putting "osu!lazer tournament client" at the beginning makes it sound like a title when it's not

also the description doesn't really say anything. what does it do (u already got this a little with "overlays osu!tourney")? how does it compare to using the stable tourney client alone?

> Users encountering problems with the client may [create an issue](https://github.com/ppy/osu/issues) or send an email to [tournaments@ppy.sh](mailto:tournaments@ppy.sh).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users encountering problems with the client may [create an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu/issues) or send an email to [tournaments@ppy.sh](mailto:tournaments@ppy.sh).
```

## Setup

> To start the osu!lazer tournament client, you need to specify a launch argument to the executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the osu!lazer tournament client, you need to specify a launch argument to the osu!lazer executable.
```

> To do this, create a new shortcut on the desktop and set the location for it to `%LOCALAPPDATA%\osulazer\osu!.exe --tournament`. This will make that specific shortcut start up osu!lazer in the tournament client mode.

Reviewer: can be part of the previous paragraph

> To do this, create a new shortcut on the desktop and set the location for it to `%LOCALAPPDATA%\osulazer\osu!.exe --tournament`. This will make that specific shortcut start up osu!lazer in the tournament client mode.

Reviewer: seems like an odd way to introduce making the shortcut, it's written as if this is the only way to "specify a launch argument to the executable"

> Because the osu!lazer tournament client is only an overlay for osu!tourney, it will need to be set up as well. To make sure osu!tourney will work with osu!lazer you will need to set the Release stream in osu!tourney to Cutting Edge (Experimental) and create an empty file called `ipc.txt` inside the installation folder of osu!tourney. After that follow the [osu!tourney setup](/wiki/osu!tourney/Setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the osu!lazer tournament client is only an overlay for osu!tourney, that will need to be set up as well. Set the Release stream in osu!tourney to `Cutting Edge (Experimental)` and create an empty file called `ipc.txt` inside the installation folder of osu!tourney. After that, follow the [osu!tourney setup guide](/wiki/osu!tourney/Setup).
```

> Open the osu!lazer tournament client using the shortcut and you will see this setup screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the osu!lazer tournament client and you will see this setup screen:
```

![osu!lazer tournament client setup screen](img/setup-screen.png)

> - Make sure the Current IPC Source matches the location of the osu!tourney instance that you will be using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure the `Current IPC source` matches the location of the osu!tourney instance that you will be using.
```

> - Login to osu!lazer by clicking on Change login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Log in to osu!lazer by clicking on `Change Login`.
```
I think "log in" is 2 words when you use it as a verb, could be wrong tho

- Set the correct ruleset using the dropdown menu.

> - Change the height to match the `Height` you had set in the `tournament.cfg` file of osu!tourney.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the height to match the `Height` set in the `tournament.cfg` file of osu!tourney.
```

## Customisation

> The osu!lazer tournament client can be customised by providing it with custom flags, mod icons and video files. These will get displayed in the respective scenes as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!lazer tournament client can be customised by providing it with custom flags, mod icons, and video files. These will display in the respective scenes as needed.
```

### Flags

> For custom flags `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. These flags have to be at a resolution of 140x94 to be displayed correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For custom flags, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. These flags have to be at a resolution of 140x94 to be displayed correctly.
```

> For custom flags `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. These flags have to be at a resolution of 140x94 to be displayed correctly.

Reviewer: might want to explain here why you'd want custom flags in the first place, it's probably not obvious that these can refer to teams and not necessarily countries

An example of a flag using the correct specifications is this flag of Australia:

> ![][flag_AU]

Reviewer: this isn't using correct spec though. example might not be important for a simple image anyway

Flags have to be placed in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournament\flags`. The flags can then be referenced in the Team Editor by their filenames without the file extension.

### Mods

> For custom mod icons `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. The resolution can be anything and the client will try to auto fit it in the beatmap panel. For reference, a beatmap panel at 1920x1080 is 563x60 pixels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For custom mod icons, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. The resolution can be anything and the client will fit it in the beatmap panel. For reference, a beatmap panel at 1920x1080 is 563x60 pixels.
```
what's the ideal mod resolution then? 60x60? u should state that, instead of the map panel res

Mod icons have to be placed in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournament\mods`. The mods can then be referenced by their filenames without the file extension in the Rounds Editor and in the Seeding Results Editor.

### Videos

> Video files in the background of scenes visible to the stream can be displayed. These will automatically be looped in the client once the end of the file is reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Videos can be displayed in the backgrounds of scenes visible to the stream. These will automatically be looped in the client once the end of the video is reached.
```

The files have to adhere to the following specifications:

- 16:9 aspect ratio, for example 1280x720 or 1920x1080

> - The file extension is `mp4`, `m4v`, or `avi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mp4`, `m4v`, or `avi` file extension
```
to be consistent with the aspect ratio line

> - The file extension is `mp4`, `m4v`, or `avi`.

Reviewer: should specify what video and audio codecs lazer supports

The video files have to placed in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournament\videos` and specific names are required for the correct functionality.

| Scene | File(s) |
| :-- | :-- |
| Schedule | `schedule` |
| TeamIntro | `teamintro` |
| Seeding | `seeding` |
| MapPool | `mappool` |
| Gameplay | `gameplay` |

> | Win | `teamwin-red` (if team red is the winner) / `teamwin-blue` (if team blue is the winner) |

Reviewer: i dont think it's right to say "if" in these, cuz you'd always want both videos. the naming is so self-explanatory i think you could do without the comments too
```suggestion
| Win | `teamwin-red`, `teamwin-blue` |
```

- Make sure the `Current IPC source` matches the location of the osu!tourney instance that you will be using.
- Log in to osu!lazer by clicking on `Change Login`.
- Set the correct ruleset using the dropdown menu.
- Change the height to match the `Height` set in the `tournament.cfg` file of osu!tourney.

## Managing Tournaments

Tournament configurations for osu!lazer are stored in `%APPDATA%/osu/tournaments`. On first start up of the client a directory called `default` is made inside this folder. A user can maintain multiple tournament configurations and switch between them as needed to get the appropriate customisations applied.

To create a new tournament configuration, create a new directory in the `tournaments` directory with the name of your tournament.

Inside a tournament configuration the necessary assets can be supplied to display flags, videos and mod icons for the mappool. Each category of asset has its own folder: 

- your-tournament
    - flags
    - mods
    - videos

## Customisation

The osu!lazer tournament client can be customised by providing it with custom flags, mod icons, and video files. These will display in the respective scenes as needed.

### Flags

> For custom flags, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. Flag images should be at least 140x94, maintaining an aspect ratio close to this specification for best results.

Reviewer 2: Nowhere are the default flags mentioned (ie. what is supported).

> For custom flags, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. These flags have to be at a resolution of 140x94 to be displayed correctly. It will be scaled to fill the shape by the client if the resolution does not match.

Reviewer 2: What about default flags? Nowhere is it said what is supported for defaults.

An example of a flag using the correct specifications is this flag of Australia:

![][flag_AU]

Flags have to be placed in `<your-tournament>/flags`. The flags can then be referenced in the Team Editor by their filenames without the file extension.

### Mods

> For custom mod icons, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. The resolution can be anything and the client will fit it in the beatmap panel. For reference, a beatmap panel at 1920x1080 is 563x60 pixels.

Reviewer 2: Are there any non-"custom" mod icons? I don't think there are, which means these are not custom but *required*. If not, the defaults should probably be linked somewhere?

Mod icons have to be placed in `<your-tournament>/mods`. The mods can then be referenced by their filenames without the file extension in the Rounds Editor and in the Seeding Results Editor.

### Videos

> Videos can be displayed in the backgrounds of scenes visible to the stream. These will automatically be looped in the client once the end of the video is reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looping videos can be displayed in the background of each scene.
```

Note: The client decodes video files using software decoding, so depending on the usage scenario performance may vary. 

The files have to adhere to the following specifications:

- 16:9 aspect ratio, for example 1280x720 or 1920x1080
- `mp4`, `m4v`, or `avi` file extension
- Video codec: H.264, Audio codec: none

The video files have to placed in `<your-tournament>/videos` and specific names are required for the correct functionality.

| Scene | File(s) |
| :-- | :-- |
| Schedule | `schedule` |
| TeamIntro | `teamintro` |
| Seeding | `seeding` |
| MapPool | `mappool` |
| Gameplay | `gameplay` |
| Win | `teamwin-red`, `teamwin-blue` |
| Drawings | `main` |
| Showcase | `showcase` |

[flag_AU]: /wiki/shared/flag/AU.gif "Australia"

## Editors

The osu!lazer tournament client has three editors that can be used to provide the following information about a tournament: the teams and its players, the rounds and their accompanying mappool and the bracket. 

> ### Team Editor

Reviewer 2: Is this document supposed to end here? Should this not be added as a separate step if you don't intend on finishing it?

Tournament configurations for osu!lazer are stored in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournaments`. On first start up of the client a directory called `default` is made inside this folder. A user can maintain multiple tournament configurations and switch between them as needed to get the appropriate customisations applied.

To create a new tournament configuration, create a new directory in the `tournaments` directory with the name of your tournament.

Inside a tournament configuration the necessary assets can be supplied to display flags, videos and mod icons for the mappool. Each category of asset has its own folder: 

- your-tournament
    - flags
    - mods
    - videos

## Customisation

The osu!lazer tournament client can be customised by providing it with custom flags, mod icons, and video files. These will display in the respective scenes as needed.

### Flags

For custom flags, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. These flags have to be at a resolution of 140x94 to be displayed correctly. It will be scaled to fill the shape by the client if the resolution does not match.

An example of a flag using the correct specifications is this flag of Australia:

![][flag_AU]

> Flags have to be placed in `<your-tournament>\flags`. The flags can then be referenced in the Team Editor by their filenames without the file extension.

Author: Not really sure how to handle these. I called it `your-tournament` in the example directory tree too, but I don't know if there's a way to make this more clear.

### Mods

For custom mod icons, `.jpg` and `.png` files are accepted. The resolution can be anything and the client will fit it in the beatmap panel. For reference, a beatmap panel at 1920x1080 is 563x60 pixels.

> Mod icons have to be placed in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournament\mods`. The mods can then be referenced by their filenames without the file extension in the Rounds Editor and in the Seeding Results Editor.

Reviewer 2: needs to be updated with some supplementary documentation

### Videos

Videos can be displayed in the backgrounds of scenes visible to the stream. These will automatically be looped in the client once the end of the video is reached.

The files have to adhere to the following specifications:

- 16:9 aspect ratio, for example 1280x720 or 1920x1080
- `mp4`, `m4v`, or `avi` file extension

> The video files have to placed in `%APPDATA%\osu\tournament\videos` and specific names are required for the correct functionality.

Reviewer 2: as mentioned, these paths are now wrong
